
- An introduction for SuperTux -
http://super-tux.sf.net/

Last update: April 26, 2004
 
DESCRIPTION
-----------
  SuperTux is a jump'n run like game, with strong inspiration from the
  Super Mario Bros games for Nintendo.

  Run and jump through multiple worlds, fighting off enemies by jumping
  on them or bumping them from below.  Grabbing power-ups and other stuff
  on the way.


STORY
-----

- Penny gets captured! -

  Tux and Penny were out having a nice
  picnic on the ice fields of Antarctica.
  Suddenly, a creature jumped from
  behind an ice bush, there was a flash,
  and Tux fell asleep!

  When Tux wakes up, he finds that Penny
  is missing. Where she lay before now
  lies a letter. "Tux, my arch enemy!"
  says the letter. "I have captured
  your beautiful Penny and have taken her
  to my fortress. The path to my fortress
  is littered with my minions. Give up on
  the thought of trying to reclaim her,
  you haven't a chance! -Nolok"

  Tux looks and see Nolok's fortress in
  the distance. Determined to save his
  beloved Penny, he begins his journey.


DOCUMENTATION
-------------
  Important documentation for SuperTux is contained in multiple files.
  Please see them:

    AUTHORS     - Credits for people that contributed to the creation
                  of SuperTux.
    NEWS        - Changes since the previous versions of "SuperTux"
    COPYING     - The GNU Public License, which "SuperTux" is liscensed
                  under.
    INSTALL     - Instructions on requirements, compiling and installing.
    README      - (This file.)  Game story, usage, rules and controls.
    TODO        - A wish-list for this version of "SuperTux"
    LEVELDESIGN - Very useful information for those that want to design
                  levels for SuperTux.


RUNNING THE GAME
----------------
  SuperTux makes use of proc to see where it is. In other words, it does not
  have any need to be installed and can be run from anywhere. This makes
  it possible to click in the executable in your filemanager (ie. Konqueror,
  Nautilus) as oposited to most of Linux games.

  Options can be reached from the menu, so you don't need to specify arguments,
  but if you want, type 'supertux --help' to check the ones that are avaible.
  Also, notice that SuperTux saves the options, so you don't need to be allways
  specifying them.

  The game has two frontends: SDL and OpenGL. Currently, there isn't any
  noticiable difference between them. Basically, SDL uses software to draw
  the game and OpenGL makes use of the videocards CPU (if the videocard has
  one and the drivers support it). Under linux, nVidia is recommendaded
  (with the closed drivers), but an ATI video card should work just fine.


PLAYING THE GAME
----------------
  Controls
  --------
  Both keyboards and joysticks/gamepads are supported. You can change the
  controls via the Options menu. Basically, the only keys you will need to
  use in-game are to do the following actions: jump, duck, right, left, power
  and 'P' to pause/unpause the game. I don't think there is anything to
  explain about the others, but the power key, also called run, allow you
  to run and use the power of the powerup you got. For instance, with the
  fire flower, you can shoot bullets (note that this is the only power
  currently implemented).
  
  Other useful keys include the Esc key, which is used to go to the menu or
  to go up a level in the menu. The menu can be navigated using the arrow
  keys or the mouse.

  In the worldmap, the arrow keys are used to navigate and Enter enters the
  current level.

  The leveleditor is controled via the mouse, but there are shortcuts that
  may make your life easier. To see the shortcuts for the buttons, just
  do a Right-click on them. If you are interested in creating SuperTux
  levels, we advise you to read LEVELDESIGN to learn more about the editor
  and creating new levels.


SCREEN LAYOUT
-------------
  Status
  ------
    The amount of time you have left to complete this level is displayed in
    the center at the top of the screen.  (Note: Time is NOT in seconds!)

    The number of coins you have collected is displayed at the upper right.

SCORING
-------
  Enemies
  -------
    If you kill more than one enemy at a time without landing on the ground,
    each enemy is worth more points.  For example, if there are three in a
    row and you jump on the first, it's worth 50 points.  If you bounce off
    the first and onto the second, it's worth 100 points.  If you also get
    the third, it's worth 150 points.

    You can also score by shooting at the enemies. Don't forget to get
    the iceflower in order to get the ability to fire.

THE END
-------
  Thanks for trying out SuperTux.

  If you like SuperTux, please rate and review it at the
  Linux Game Tome:

    http://www.happypenguin.org/

  Search for "SuperTux"!


  Thanks!

  The SuperTux development team
