
- Translation info -
http://super-tux.sf.net/

Last update: June 4, 2004

 == TRANSLATORS ==

* Translation Hints *

 If there isn't a good translation for some term (ie. fullscreen), you might consider
to just keep it. It's better than making the user confused.

 In English, there is only one singular second person mode (You). If your language does
have more than one - a personal and impersonal - remember that this is a game, so you
should use the personal one. However, if it is possible to ommit it in your language,
it might be a good idea.

 Names like SuperTux, Tux, Penny and other game elements should not be translated. If you
really think one of these to be a too strange word for your people, first inform us at
our mailing list.

 Translating lots of strings can be boring and time consuming, but, in my opinion, it
worths when lookins at the results ;-)

Note: If somewhere in the game, after translating a string, it doesn't look well (bad
aligment, overlaps other text...), contact us.

* Programs to Aid Translation *

 My personal favourite is KBabel (don't forget to fill the configuration regarding your
country).
 I am also aware that (X)Emacs has also a plugin for this effect. I believe Qt also has a
translation aid program called QTranslator.

 If you are new to this, the translation file that you should use is the supertux.pot that
is inside the po/ root folder. Rename it to your language (ie. Spanish - es.po) and then
open it with any program.
 It is only a plain text file, so you can even use any text editor you want to translate it,
but it may be wise to use a specific program for the purpose.
 After translating the file, add it to LINGUAS (ie. Spanish - es) and run 'make update-po'.
Then a binary file will be created. In order to make SuperTux using it, you will have to
install it ('make install').

Note: Currently, only the game itself is translatable. Data files, like levels,
credits, story... are not yet translatable.


 == DEVELOPERS ==

* Translatable Strings *

 Output should not be translated, since their purpose is mainly for debugging.
 However, command description (ie. --help) should obviously be translated. Messages
that give the user a solution for a problem, might be translatable, as well.

 Parametars shouldn't also be translatable. It breaks scripting. Besides advanced users,
the ones that will make use of this, usually don't like it.

The SuperTux Team
